 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02 

 CONTENTS 
 QUALIFICATION  OBJECTIVE  2 
 QUALIFICATION  TITLE  2 
 KEY  DATES  3 
 PROGRESSION  OPPORTUNITIES  3 
 ENTRY  REQUIREMENTS  3 
 HIGHER  TECHNICAL  QUALIFICATIONS  4 
 DEFINITIONS  4 
 QUALIFICATION  STRUCTURES  -  OPERATIONAL  MANAGEMENT  5 
 RULES  OF  COMBINATION  5 
 QUALIFICATION  DELIVERY  6 
 ACCESSIBILITY  OF  CMI  QUALIFICATIONS  6 
 RECOGNITION  OF  PRIOR  LEARNING  6 
 ASSESSMENT  &  QUALITY  ASSURANCE  7 
 LEARNER  AUTHENTICITY  7 
 ASSESSMENT  GRADING  8 
 ASSESSMENT  METHODOLOGIES  9 
 WORD  COUNT  AND  APPENDICES  12 
 EXTERNAL  MARKING  12 
 APPEALS  AGAINST  ASSESSMENT  DECISIONS  13 
 CMI  SERVICES  -  SUPPORTING  CMI  QUALIFICATIONS  14 
 CMI  MEMBERSHIP  14 
 CHARTERED  MANAGER  14 
 STUDY  RESOURCES  14 
 UNIT  SUMMARIES  16 
 UNIT  549  -  DEVELOPING,  MANAGING  AND  LEADING  TEAMS  18 
 UNIT  549  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA  19 
 UNIT  550  -  STAKEHOLDER  RELATIONSHIPS  21 
 UNIT  550  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA  22 
 UNIT  551  -  MANAGING  A  PROJECT  24 
 UNIT  551  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA  25 
 UNIT  552  -  MANAGING  CHANGE  28 
 UNIT  552  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA  29 
 UNIT  553  -  OPERATIONAL  PLANNING  31 
 UNIT  553  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA  32 
 UNIT  554  -  PERSONAL  AND  PROFESSIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  34 
 UNIT  554  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA  35 
 ANNEX  1  -  COMMAND  VERB  DEFINITIONS  37 
 ANNEX  2  -  ASSESSMENT  ACTIVITY  DEFINITIONS  41 
 ANNEX  3  -  ALIGNMENT  TO  OCCUPATIONAL  STANDARD  42 
 ANNEX  4  -  REVISIONS  TO  DOCUMENT  46 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  1 
 QUALIFICATION  OBJECTIVE 
 This  qualification  is  designed  to  support  individuals  in  the  development  of  management  and  leadership 
 skills  required  by  operational  or  departmental  managers. 
 This  qualification  is  aimed  at  practising  or  aspiring  managers  and  leaders  who  are  typically 
 accountable  to  a  senior  manager  or  business  owner.  The  primary  role  of  a  practising  or  aspiring 
 manager  and  leader  is  to  lead  and  manage  individuals  and  teams  to  deliver  aims  and  objectives  in  line 
 with  organisational  strategy. 
 The  qualifications  have  been  designed  for  practising  or  aspiring  managers  in  roles  such  as: 
 ●  Operations  Manager 
 ●  Divisional  Manager 
 ●  Departmental  Manager 
 ●  Regional  Manager 
 ●  Specialist  Manager 
 Extensive  research  has  been  undertaken  to  ensure  that  these  qualifications  reflect  tasks  and  activities 
 of  managers  in  the  workplace.  Sources  of  information  include,  but  are  not  limited  to: 
 ●  Comparability  to  national  management  qualifications 
 ●  CMI  Professional  Standards 
 ●  Management  Transformed  paper 
 ●  Everyone  Economy  paper 
 ●  Work  Ready  Graduate  paper 
 ●  A  review  of  the  roles  and  responsibilities  of  managers  sourced  from  a  range  of  UK  companies 
 ●  Analysis  of  Apprenticeship  Standard  for  Operations/Departmental  Manager  ST0385/01 
 ●  Stakeholder  consultation 
 QUALIFICATION  TITLE 
 The  title  given  below  is  the  title  as  it  will  appear  on  the  qualification  when  awarded  to  the  Learner.  The 
 qualification  reference  number  is  the  number  allocated  to  the  qualification  by  the  Regulator  at  the  time 
 of  submission,  which  confirms  that  this  is  a  regulated  qualification  on  the  RQF  and  on  the  Register. 
 The  CMI  code  is  the  code  which  should  be  used  when  registering  Learners  with  CMI. 
 CMI 
 Code  Qualification  Title  Qualification 
 Reference  Number 
 5D43  Level  5  Diploma  in  Operational  Management  610/1289/0 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  2 
 KEY  DATES 
 These  qualifications  are  regulated  from  1st  September  2022  and  the  operational  start  date  in  CMI 
 Centres  is  1st  September  2024.  The  qualification  will  be  reviewed  from  time  to  time,  in  line  with  the 
 CMIs  review  process. 
 PROGRESSION  OPPORTUNITIES 
 Upon  successful  completion  of  their  qualification,  learners  are  able  to  progress  into  employment 
 and/or  onto  Higher  Education  (HE). 
 Learners  may  also  wish  to  further  their  ongoing  personal  and  professional  development  by  accessing 
 other  CMI  qualifications,  such  as  the  CMI  Level  6  or  7  Qualifications  in  Management  and  Leadership 
 with  the  goal  of  becoming  a  Chartered  Manager. 
 Possible  job  roles  for  learners  to  progress  into  upon  successful  completion  of  their  qualification: 
 ●  Senior  Leader 
 ●  Senior  Team  Leader 
 ●  Project  Manager 
 ●  Shift  Manager 
 ENTRY  REQUIREMENTS 
 These  qualifications  can  be  offered  to  Learners  from  age  18.  CMI  does  not  specify  entry  requirements 
 for  these  qualifications,  but  Centres  are  required  to  ensure  that  Learners  admitted  to  the  programme 
 have  sufficient  capability  at  the  right  level  to  undertake  the  learning  and  assessment. 
 CMI  Centre  must  ensure  Learners  are  recruited  with  integrity  onto  appropriate  qualifications  that  will: 
 ●  meet  their  needs, 
 ●  enable  and  facilitate  learning  and  achievement, 
 ●  enable  progression. 
 In  order  to  achieve  this,  the  CMI  Centre  will  need  to: 
 ●  Provide  relevant  programme  information,  guidance  and  advice,  to  enable  informed  Learner 
 choice, 
 ●  Publish  entry  and  selection  criteria, 
 ●  Demonstrate  that  Learners  are  recruited  with  integrity, 
 ●  Carry  out  comprehensive  Learner  induction  that: 
 ●  addresses  programme  and  organisational  requirements 
 ●  explains  Learner  facilities 
 ●  identifies  Learners’  development  needs 
 ●  develops  an  Individual  Learning  Plan. 
 The  qualification  is  offered  in  the  medium  of  the  English  Language. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  3 
 HIGHER  TECHNICAL  QUALIFICATIONS 
 Higher  Technical  Qualifications  (HTQs)  are  level  4  or  5  qualifications  that  have  been  quality  marked 
 by  IfATE  to  indicate  their  alignment  to  employer-led  occupational  standards.  New  or  existing  level  4  or 
 5  qualifications  submitted  to  IfATE’s  approvals  process  will  receive  a  quality-mark  if  the  qualification 
 satisfies  IfATE's  approvals  criteria.  HTQs  align  to  approved  occupational  standards  and  allow  learners 
 to  enter  their  chosen  profession  or  progress  onto  higher  education. 
 For  further  information  please  visit  the  IfATE  website: 
 https://www.instituteforapprenticeships.org/qualifications/higher-technical-qualifications/introduction-to 
 -higher-technical-qualifications-and-scope-of-approval/  . 
 DEFINITIONS 
 Total  Qualification  Time  (TQT)  is  defined  as  the  number  of  notional  hours  which  represents  an 
 estimate  of  the  total  amount  of  time  that  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  be  required,  in  order  for  a 
 Learner  to  achieve  and  demonstrate  the  achievement  of  the  level  of  attainment  necessary  for  the 
 award  of  a  qualification.  Total  Qualification  Time  is  comprised  of  the  following  two  elements  – 
 a)  the  number  of  hours  which  an  awarding  organisation  has  assigned  to  a  qualification  for 
 Guided  Learning,  and 
 b)  an  estimate  of  the  number  of  hours  a  Learner  will  reasonably  be  likely  to  spend  in 
 preparation,  study  or  any  other  form  of  participation  in  education  or  training,  including 
 assessment,  which  takes  place  as  directed  by  –  but  not  under  the  immediate  supervision  of  – 
 a  lecturer,  supervisor,  tutor  or  other  appropriate  provider  of  education  or  training. 
 Total  Unit  Time  (TUT)  is  defined  as  the  number  of  notional  hours  which  represents  an  estimate  of  the 
 total  amount  of  time  that  could  reasonably  be  expected  to  be  required,  in  order  for  a  Learner  to 
 achieve  and  demonstrate  the  achievement  of  the  level  of  attainment  necessary  for  the  award  of  a  unit. 
 Guided  Learning  Hours  (GLH)  is  defined  as  the  activity  of  a  Learner  in  being  taught  or  instructed  by 
 –  or  otherwise  participating  in  education  or  training  under  the  Immediate  Guidance  or  Supervision  of  – 
 a  lecturer,  supervisor,  tutor  or  other  appropriate  provider  of  education  or  training. 
 Immediate  Guidance  or  Supervision  is  defined  as  the  guidance  or  supervision  provided  to  a 
 Learner  by  a  lecturer,  supervisor,  tutor  or  other  appropriate  provider  of  education  or  training  – 
 a)  with  the  simultaneous  physical  present  of  the  Learner  and  that  person,  or 
 b)  remotely  by  means  of  simultaneous  electronic  communication 
 Credit  value  is  defined  as  being  the  number  of  credits  that  may  be  awarded  to  a  Learner  for  the 
 successful  achievement  of  the  learning  outcomes  of  a  unit.  One  credit  is  equal  to  10  hours  of  TQT. 
 Rule  of  Combination  is  defined  as  being  a  rule  specifying  the  combination  of  units  which  may  be 
 taken  to  form  a  particular  qualification,  any  units  which  must  be  taken  and  any  related  requirements. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  4 
 QUALIFICATION  STRUCTURES  -  OPERATIONAL 
 MANAGEMENT 
 RULES  OF  COMBINATION 
 There  are  minimum  requirements  to  achieve  this  qualification.  The  minimum  requirements  are  based 
 on  the  boundaries  outlined  in  Ofqual’s  Guidance  to  the  General  Conditions  of  Recognition,  namely 
 Condition  E2. 
 CMI  LEVEL  5  DIPLOMA  IN  OPERATIONAL  MANAGEMENT 
 Learners  must  complete  and  pass  all  six  (6)  mandatory  units  and  achieve  a  total  of  41  credits  .The 
 minimum  GLH  is  126  hours.  The  Total  Qualification  Time  (TQT)  is  410  hours. 
 Unit  Code  Unit  Title  GLH  Credits  TUT 
 549  Developing,  Managing  and  Leading  Teams  27  7  70 
 550  Stakeholder  Relationships  18  5  50 
 551  Managing  a  Project  24  8  80 
 552  Managing  Change  19  7  70 
 553  Operational  Planning  22  8  80 
 554  Personal  &  Professional  Development  16  6  60 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  5 
 QUALIFICATION  DELIVERY 
 CMI  does  not  specify  the  mode  of  delivery  for  its  qualifications  at  Level  5;  therefore  CMI  Centres  are 
 free  to  deliver  the  Level  5  qualifications  using  any  mode  of  delivery  that  meets  the  needs  of  their 
 Learners.  However,  CMI  Centres  should  consider  the  Learners’  complete  learning  experience  when 
 designing  the  learning  programmes. 
 CMI  Centres  must  ensure  that  the  chosen  mode  of  delivery  does  not  unlawfully  or  unfairly 
 discriminate,  whether  directly  or  indirectly,  and  that  equality  of  opportunity  is  promoted.  Where  it  is 
 reasonable  and  practical  to  do  so,  it  will  take  steps  to  address  identified  inequalities  or  barriers  that 
 may  arise. 
 Please  ensure  that  the  content  of  the  Centre  Delivery  plan  is  approved  by  the  CMI  Quality  Manager. 
 For  CMI  requirements  regarding  Tutor/Deliverers  of  CMI  qualifications  please  refer  to  the  CMI  Quality 
 Assurance  Manual  for  more  information. 
 ACCESSIBILITY  OF  CMI  QUALIFICATIONS 
 There  may  be  incidents  where  Learners  may  require  special  consideration  and  reasonable 
 adjustments  to  the  delivery  and  assessment  of  qualifications.  In  the  event  of  this,  Centres  should 
 apply  using  the  online  form  Qualification  Adjustment  Request  in  MyCMI. 
 Further  information,  please  see  the  CMI  Reasonable  Adjustments  Procedure  and  the  CMI  Special 
 Consideration  Procedure 
 RECOGNITION  OF  PRIOR  LEARNING 
 There  may  be  occasions  where  Learners  request  Recognition  of  Prior  Learning  (RPL).  This  can  be 
 applied  by  Centres.  Further  guidance  on  RPL  and  exemptions  can  be  found  in  CMI  RPL  policy  . 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  6 
 ASSESSMENT  &  QUALITY  ASSURANCE 
 The  criteria  of  the  assessment  of  a  CMI  qualification  will  be  to  meet  the  assessment  criteria  detailed 
 within  each  individual  unit. 
 The  primary  interface  with  the  Learner  is  the  Assessor,  whose  job  it  is  to  make  an  assessment 
 judgement  against  the  Assessment  Criteria  (AC).  The  Assessor  should  provide  an  audit  trail  showing 
 how  the  judgement  of  the  Learner's  overall  achievement  has  been  arrived  at. 
 CMI  mandates  the  use  of  its  own  Assessment  Briefs  and  associated  assessment  methods.  This 
 ensures  that  all  criteria  are  addressed,  and  there  is  standardisation  and  comparability  across  learners 
 and  assessment.  For  more  information  please  refer  to  page  9  of  this  document  -  Assessment 
 Methodologies. 
 In  addition  to  the  specific  assessment  criteria  in  each  unit,  the  Learner's  work  must  be: 
 ●  accurate,  current  and  authentic, 
 ●  relevant  in  depth  and  breadth. 
 and  must  also  show  the  Learner's: 
 ●  clear  grasp  of  concepts, 
 ●  ability  to  link  theory  to  practice,  and, 
 ●  ability  to  communicate  clearly  in  the  relevant  discipline  at  the  expected  level  for  the 
 qualification. 
 LEARNER  AUTHENTICITY 
 Learners  are  required  to  sign  and  date  a  Statement  of  Authenticity.  The  Learner  statement  confirms 
 the  evidence  submitted  is  all  their  own  work  and  has  not  been  completed  by  a  third  party. 
 Additionally,  the  Learner  statement  confirms  the  evidence  provided  has  been  completed  in 
 accordance  with  CMI  approved  instructions.  An  electronic  signature  that  is  scanned  is  acceptable  and 
 also  where  there  is  a  fully  automated  system  for  uploading  evidence  then  a  ‘tick-box’  to  the  statement 
 is  also  acceptable.  Where  CMI  evidence  booklets  are  used,  the  statement  of  authenticity  may  be 
 integral  to  the  booklet  and  in  this  case,  a  separate  statement  is  not  required. 
 Centres  are  required  to  complete  a  Centre  Statement  of  Authenticity  to  confirm  the  Learner  is 
 registered  on  a  CMI  programme  of  study. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  7 
 ASSESSMENT  GRADING 
 The  grading  system  for  CMI  qualifications  is  “Pass/Refer”.  The  external  moderation  of  Learners’  work 
 confirms  that  the  required  criteria  for  achievement  have  been  met. 
 CMI  Centres  are,  however,  free  to  apply  their  own  grade  scales,  but  it  must  be  understood  that  these 
 are  completely  separate  from  the  CMI  qualification. 
 It  is  important  to  ensure  consistency  of  assessment,  and  that  demands  made  on  Learners  are 
 comparable  within  and  between  CMI  Centres.  A  number  of  assessment  methods  can  be  used. 
 For  CMI  requirements  regarding  Assessors  and  Internal  Verifiers  of  CMI  qualifications  please  refer  to 
 the  CMI  Quality  Assurance  Manual  for  more  information. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  8 
 ASSESSMENT  METHODOLOGIES 
 In  order  to  ensure  valid  and  reliable  assessment,  the  following  assessment  methods  have  been 
 selected  to  be  used  within  this  qualification.  See  the  Qualification  Syllabus  for  more  information  on 
 specific  assessment  tasks. 
 Unit  Assessment  Methods 
 Unit  549  - 
 Developing, 
 Managing 
 and  Leading 
 teams  LO1:  Write  a  report  titled:  Approaches  to  developing,  managing  and  leading  different  teams 
 The  report  should  be  in  4  parts: 
 1.  Evaluate  the  use  of  different  leadership  styles  for  developing,  managing  and  leading  teams 
 2.  Evaluate  different  Models  used  to  develop,  manage  and  lead  teams 
 3.  Analyse  strategies  for  managing  team  leaders 
 4.  Develop  approaches  to  address  the  challenges  of  managing  and  leading  multiple  and 
 remote  teams 
 LO2:  Write  a  briefing  paper  titled:  Methods  that  can  be  used  to  monitor,  manage  and  improve 
 individual  and  team  performance 
 The  briefing  paper  should  be  in  4  parts: 
 1.  An  outline  of  the  factors  that  impact  on  the  selection  of  learning  and  development  activities 
 for  individuals 
 2.  Assessment  of  the  impact  of  the  factors  on  the  selection  of  learning  and  development 
 activities  for  teams 
 3.  Examine  the  use  of  coaching  and  mentoring  models  to  support  team  development 
 4.  Analyse  motivational  techniques  that  can  be  used  to  create  high  performing  teams 
 LO3:  Write  a  good  practice  guide  titled:  Approaches  to  achieving  a  balance  of  skills  and  experience 
 in  a  team 
 This  best  practice  guide  should  be  in  2  parts: 
 1.  Analyse  the  processes  used  to  recruit  team  members 
 2.  Discuss  methods  used  to  monitor  and  manage  individual  and  team  performance 
 LO4:  Write  a  report  titled:  skills  and  approaches  in  managing  talent  and  performance 
 Your  report  should  be  based  on  the  approaches  used  within  your  own  organisation  or  an 
 organisation  that  you  have  researched. 
 1.  Discuss  practical  approaches  used  for  effective  team  management  and  leadership 
 2.  Outline  the  skills  and  techniques  required  to  meet  current  and  future  needs  and  evaluate 
 techniques  for  assessing  these  within  a  team 
 3.  Evaluate  good  practice  used  to  enable  and  support  high  performing  teams 
 Unit  550  - 
 Stakeholder 
 Relationships  LO1:  Write  a  report  titled:  How  to  manage  the  complexities  of  stakeholder  relationships 
 The  report  will  need  to  be  in  3  parts: 
 1.  An  analysis  of  types  of  stakeholder  relationships  within  organisations 
 2.  An  examination  of  the  contractual  frameworks  for  stakeholder  engagement  and 
 management 
 3.  An  analysis  of  the  role  of  the  manager  in  managing  stakeholder  relationships 
 LO2:  Write  a  briefing  paper  titled:  How  to  work  collaboratively  with  different  stakeholders 
 The  briefing  paper  will  need  to  be  2  parts: 
 1.  Evaluation  of  collaborative  working  techniques  to  manage  stakeholder  relationships 
 2.  Outline  of  methods  used  to  manage  conflict  in  stakeholder  relationships 
 LO3:  Write  a  report  titled:  Approaches  used  to  effectively  manage  stakeholder  relationships 
 The  report  should  be  in  3  parts: 
 1.  Examine  the  benefits  and  challenges  of  working  with  different  stakeholders 
 2.  Recommend  processes  used  to  plan  stakeholder  engagement 
 3.  Examine  methods  used  to  measure  the  impact  of  stakeholder  engagement  on 
 organisational  performance 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  9 
 Unit  551  - 
 Managing  a 
 Project  LO1:  Write  a  report  titled:  Principles  and  Processes  in  Project  Management 
 The  report  should  include: 
 1.  Introduction 
 2.  Defining  Project  Management  Principles 
 3.  Project  Contribution  to  Organisational  Goals 
 4.  Process  for  Initiating  Projects 
 5.  Examination  of  Tools  and  Techniques 
 6.  Impact  of  Legal,  Organisational,  and  Ethical  Factors 
 7.  Conclusion 
 LO2:  Create  a  Project  Proposal  to  deliver  an  organisational  goal. 
 The  Project  Proposal  could  include  the  following: 
 1.  Introduction 
 2.  Project  Objectives 
 3.  Scope  of  Work 
 4.  Methodology/Approach: 
 5.  Project  Deliverables 
 6.  Timeline/Schedule 
 7.  Budget 
 8.  Resource  Requirements 
 9.  Risk  Management 
 10.  Stakeholder  Analysis 
 11.  Communication  Plan 
 12.  Quality  Assurance/Control 
 13.  Evaluation/Measurement 
 14.  Problem  Solving  and  Decision  Making  Techniques 
 15.  Project  Closure 
 Unit  552  - 
 Managing 
 Change  LO1:  Write  a  report  titled:  The  reasons  for  change  in  organisations. 
 The  report  needs  to  be  in  four  parts: 
 1.  Analyse  the  external  factors  that  influence  change  in  organisations. 
 2.  Analyse  the  internal  factors  that  drive  the  need  for  change  in  organisations 
 3.  Evaluate  the  use  of  theoretical  models  for  managing  change  in  organisations 
 4.  Examine  the  potential  impact  of  change  in  organisations 
 LO2:  Create  a  presentation  showcasing  your  innovative  approach  to  change  management 
 The  presentation  should  address  the  following  four  areas: 
 1.  Outline  the  rationale  for  initiating  change  within  an  organisation 
 2.  Explore  approaches  to  embed  and  sustain  planned  change  in  an  organisation 
 3.  Analyse  the  role  of  leadership  in  identifying  and  overcoming  barriers  to  change 
 4.  Identify  reasons  for  engaging  with  stakeholders  throughout  the  change  management 
 process 
 LO3:  Create  a  change  management  plan 
 The  plan  needs  to  be  based  on  a  change  within  your  own  organisation  or  an  organisation  that  you 
 have  researched,  and  will  need  to  be  in  6  parts. 
 1.  Develop  a  Plan  for  Change 
 2.  Develop  Strategies  for  Communicating  Planned  Change 
 3.  Recommend  Practical  Methods  to  Support  Individuals 
 4.  Identify  Tools  for  Implementing  and  Monitoring  Change 
 5.  Recommend  Approaches  to  Overcome  Risks  and  Barriers 
 6.  Analyse  Methods  for  Measuring  and  Monitoring  Impact 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  10 
 Unit  553  - 
 Operational 
 Planning  LO1  &  LO2:  Write  a  report  tilted  ‘The  principles  of  operational  planning’ 
 The  report  should  be  in  5  (FIVE)  parts: 
 1.  Assessment  of  the  relationship  between  an  organisation's  strategic  objectives  and 
 operational  planning 
 2.  Evaluation  of  the  approaches  used  in  operational  planning 
 3.  Assessment  of  the  methods  of  managing  and  leading  the  delivery  of  an  operational  plan 
 4.  Review  of  the  techniques  for  problem  solving  and  decision  making 
 5.  Assessment  of  the  ethical  requirements  that  influence  an  operational  plan 
 LO3:  Create  an  operational  plan  covering  a  minimum  of  three  months 
 1.  The  operational  plan  must  be  in  line  with  organisational  objectives. 
 2.  the  operational  plan  maybe  based  on  work  experience,  and  link  to  an  area  of  work  that 
 you  are  familiar  with  or  have  resear ched  thoroughly 
 3.  The  oper ational  plan  must  show  a  clear  link  to  organisational  objectiv es  and  be  based 
 on  one  area  of  work 
 Unit  554  - 
 Personal  and 
 Professional 
 Development  LO1:  Write  a  briefing  paper  titled:  The  use  of  reflective  practice  in  personal  and  professional 
 development 
 The  briefing  paper  will  need  to  be  in  3  parts: 
 1.  Analyse  the  importance  of  continuous  personal  and  professional  development  in  achieving 
 organisational  objectives 
 2.  Evaluate  the  use  of  reflective  practice  in  personal  and  professional  development 
 3.  Evaluate  approaches  used  in  reflective  practice 
 LO2:  Create  a  Reflective  Account  to  inform  your  own  development. 
 The  Reflective  Account  must: 
 1.  Evaluate  own  performance  in  the  workplace  using  principles  of  reflection 
 2.  Reflect  on  own  working  style  and  its  impact  on  others  in  the  workplace 
 LO3:  Create  a  Personal  and  Professional  Development  Plan 
 Your  Plan  needs  to  evidence: 
 1.  Analyse  your  develop  needs  for  current  and  future  roles 
 2.  How  you  will  do  it 
 3.  What  support  and/or  resources  you  will  need 
 4.  Examine  the  type  of  development  opportunities  available  that  will  help  meet  your 
 objectives 
 5.  How  you  will  know  that  this  objective  has  been  successful 
 6.  The  target  date  for  this  objective  to  be  achieved 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  11 
 WORD  COUNT  AND  APPENDICES 
 The  written  word,  however  generated  and  recorded,  is  still  expected  to  form  the  majority  of  accessible 
 work  produced  by  Learners  at  Level  5.  The  guideline  word  count  for  units  within  this  qualification  are 
 summarised  below,  and  vary  depending  on  the  size  and  content  of  the  unit.  There  is  a  10%  allowance 
 above/below  these  guidelines.  For  more  information,  please  refer  to  the  CMI  Assessment  Guidance 
 Policy 
 The  table  below  sets  out  the  word  count,  by  unit,  within  these  qualifications.  Word  count  has  been  set 
 based  on  the  content  being  covered  within  each  unit. 
 Unit  Title  Word 
 Count 
 549 
 Developing,  Managing  and  Leading  teams  5500 
 550  Stakeholder  Relationships  4000 
 551  Managing  a  Project  6000 
 552  Managing  Change  6000 
 553  Operational  Planning  4000 
 554  Personal  and  Professional  Development  4000 
 Learner  work  should  aim  to  minimise  the  amount  of  unnecessary  attachments  or  appendices. 
 Information  that  is  essential  to  the  Learner's  work  in  order  to  meet  the  learning  outcomes  and 
 assessment  criteria  should  be  included  within  the  main  body  of  the  report.  However,  CMI  understands 
 that  from  time  to  time  a  Learner  may  need  to  include  additional  supporting  information  which 
 enhances  the  overall  work  and  it  is  recommended  that  it  is  kept  to  a  minimum  and  does  not  exceed 
 the  word  count. 
 EXTERNAL  MARKING 
 As  part  of  our  dedicated  service,  CMI  Awarding  Body  offers  the  opportunity  for  all  Centres  to  have 
 their  Learners’  assignments  externally  marked. 
 Some  CMI  Centres  choose  to  send  one  assignment  of  the  qualification  to  be  externally  marked,  as  it 
 gives  the  Learner  a  CMI  quality  stamp,  as  it  is  marked  and  assessed  by  the  Awarding  Body. 
 This  service  provides  CMI  Centres  with  a  simplistic,  professional  and  cost  effective  way  to  get  their 
 CMI  Learner's  work  marked  and  certificated  within  a  six  week  period.  Please  refer  to  the  fees  guide 
 for  current  pricing. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  12 
 APPEALS  AGAINST  ASSESSMENT  DECISIONS 
 In  the  event  that  a  Learner  wishes  to  appeal  against  an  assessment  decision,  they  can  do  so  by 
 following  outlined  procedures. 
 Where  an  assessment  decision  has  been  made  by  the  CMI  Centre,  Learners  must  follow  the  Centre’s 
 own  Appeals  Procedure  in  the  first  instance.  If  this  procedure  has  been  exhausted  and  remains 
 unresolved,  Learners  may  log  a  Stage  2  appeal  with  CMI. 
 For  further  information,  please  see  CMI’s  Appeals  Policy  and  Procedure  . 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  13 
 CMI  SERVICES  -  SUPPORTING  CMI 
 QUALIFICATIONS 
 CMI  MEMBERSHIP 
 If  an  individual  is  not  already  in  membership  at  the  time  of  registering  on  a  CMI  qualification  then  your 
 Learner  will  be  provided  with  free  Affiliate  membership  of  the  CMI  for  the  duration  of  their  studies.  For 
 details  of  the  benefits  of  membership  please  click  here  .  There  may  be  the  opportunity  to  upgrade 
 during  the  Learner's  studies  dependent  on  successfully  completing  a  qualification  with  CMI  . 
 CHARTERED  MANAGER 
 Chartered  Managers  are  consistent  high  performers,  committed  to  current  best  practice  and  ethical 
 standards. 
 A  unique  designation,  exclusively  awarded  by  the  Chartered  Management  Institute,  Chartered 
 Manager  embodies  a  professional  approach  to  management  through  knowledge,  competence, 
 professional  standards  and  commitment  to  continuing  professional  development  (CPD). 
 To  find  out  more  about  how  to  become  a  Chartered  Manager  please  click  here  . 
 STUDY  RESOURCES 
 ManagementDirect 
 https://members.md.cmi.org.uk 
 It’s  fast,  comprehensive  and  free  to  members 
 ManagementDirect  is  a  complete  online  library  of  comprehensive  and  up-to-date  material  that 
 addresses  current  management  practice,  supports  studying  and  those  looking  to  enhance  their 
 knowledge  and  develop  their  skills. 
 ●  231  Management  Checklists  and  60  Management  Thinker  profiles 
 ●  One  page  overviews  of  key  Management  Models 
 ●  Multimedia  resources  –  100s  of  leader  insights  videos,  including  Pearls  of  Wisdom  from  Eliesha 
 ●  CMI  research  and  Professional  Manager  articles 
 ●  Authoritative  definitions  of  management  terms 
 ●  Over  11,000  articles  and  9000  e-books  to  read  online  when  you  need  them 
 ●  Learning  Journey  playlists  for  many  units  giving  you  easy  access  to  resources  specifically 
 selected  to  support  your  studies 
 ●  Resources  to  develop  your  Study  Skills,  including  factsheets  on  assignment  writing,  references 
 and  citations,  learning  styles,  note  taking  and  avoiding  plagiarism. 
 All  these  resources  are  freely  available  to  members  from  one  source.  Definitions  give  you  a  headline 
 understanding  of  the  topic;  checklists  and  models  provide  the  essentials;  and  books  and  articles 
 enable  you  to  research  further.  Depending  on  your  need  you  choose  how  far  you  want  to  go. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  14 
 E-journals 
 For  in  depth  research  try  our  e-journals  service 
 CMI  has  joined  forces  with  EBSCO  Information  Services  to  offer  members  access  to  Business 
 Source:  Corporate,  a  database  providing  direct  access  to  articles  on  management  and  business  from 
 a  range  of  academic  journals  and  business  magazines.  Members  also  have  access  to  country, 
 company  and  industry  reports  from  leading  providers. 
 Access  to  Business  Source  Corporate  is  through  ManagementDirect  . 
 Online  CPD 
 CPD  can  take  many  forms,  but  the  most  important  feature  of  any  activity  you  undertake  is  that  there 
 are  clear  learning  outcomes.  In  many  cases  these  may  enable  you  to  have  a  direct  impact  at  work. 
 Our  online  CPD  scheme  enables  you  to  record  your  learning  objectives  and  the  activities  you  have 
 undertaken  and  encourages  you  to  assess  its  impact  in  your  role  as  a  manager.  Print  reports  for  your 
 reviews,  appraisals  or  interviews. 
 Access  to  CPD  is  through  ManagementDirect  . 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  15 
 UNIT  SUMMARIES 
 The  units  within  these  qualifications  are  different  to  other  qualifications,  and  so  the  following 
 summarises  some  key  features: 
 ●  TUT  refers  to  Total  Unit  Time.  TUT  is  set  based  on  the  estimated  time  expected  for  the 
 average  Learner  to  be  taught  the  content  via  formal  Guided  Learning,  additional  informal 
 learning  and  preparation  and  completion  of  an  assessment. 
 ●  GLH  refers  to  Guided  Learning  Hours.  GLH  is  the  estimated  contact  time  the  average  Learner 
 has  with  tutors,  trainers  or  facilitators  as  part  of  the  learning  process,  it  includes  formal 
 learning  including  classes,  training  sessions,  coaching,  seminars,  live  webinar  and  telephone 
 tutorials,  e-learning  which  is  supervised.  It  is  important  to  note  that  this  also  includes 
 assessing  Learner's  achievements  for  competency  based  assessments. 
 ●  Key  words  which  highlight  knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours  which  will  be  developed 
 ●  Indicative  content  has  been  developed  to  support  the  Learner  to  understand  the  aims  of 
 learning  outcomes  and  assessment  criteria.  It  can  also  be  used  by  tutors  to  develop  lesson 
 plans  and  schemes  of  work. 
 ●  Recommendations  for  Assessment  which  provides  a  range  of  suggested  assessment  activities 
 for  actual  or  aspiring  managers 
 ●  Mapped  to  the  Chartered  Management  Competency  Framework  at  applied  level. 
 ●  Suggested  reading/web  resource  materials  developed  to  complement  the  unit  content.  The 
 primary  resource/research  tool  referred  to  is  ManagementDirect. 
 ●  Please  note  that  the  resources  lists  provided  to  guide  the  Learner  to  potential  sources  of 
 information  are  by  no  means  exhaustive.  The  websites,  books  and  journals  cited  were  correct 
 at  the  date  of  publication.  All  references  to  legislation  stated  within  the  unit  may  be  subject  to 
 subsequent  changes,  deletions  and  replacements.  Learners  may  also  make  reference  to  other 
 local  or  national  legislation  as  relevant. 
 It  is  recommended  that  Learners  have  sight  of  each  unit  of  study  in  preparation  for  assessment. 
 The  table  below  summarises  the  units  within  these  qualifications: 
 Unit  549  -  Developing,  Managing 
 and  Leading  teams  The  ability  to  lead  individuals  and  teams  to  success  is  arguably 
 the  most  important  skill  a  manager  can  possess.  This  unit 
 focuses  on  the  essential  management  and  leadership  knowledge, 
 skills  and  behaviours  required  to  fulfil  this  challenging  but 
 rewarding  role.  The  unit  opens  by  focusing  on  the  theoretical  and 
 practical  approaches  to  developing,  leading,  and  managing 
 teams  (remote  or  multi-disciplinary).  The  manager  will  look  at 
 techniques  to  assess  current  and  future  team  capabilities, 
 including  the  role  of  recruitment,  selection  and  staff  development 
 which  supports  this.  On  successful  completion  of  the  unit,  the 
 manager  will  not  only  know  the  principles  of  managing  individuals 
 and  teams,  but  they  will  understand  approaches  for  supporting, 
 motivating  and  inspiring  teams  and  individuals  to  exceed 
 expectations. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  16 
 Unit  550  -  Stakeholder 
 Relationships  Good  relationships,  whether  they  are  with  customers,  suppliers, 
 partners  or  staff,  are  a  key  contributor  to  an  organisation’s 
 success.  To  build  stakeholder  relationships  that  are  long  lasting 
 and  sustainable,  they  need  to  be  planned  and  developed.  This 
 unit  explores  the  types  and  purposes  of  stakeholder  relationships 
 and  the  knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours  required  to  overcome 
 challenges  and  manage  these  effectively. 
 Unit  551  -  Managing  a  Project  The  ability  to  manage  projects  is  a  vital  skill  for  all  managers. 
 This  unit  focuses  on  the  knowledge  and  skills  required  to  manage 
 projects  successfully  and  overcome  problems  and  challenges.  It 
 requires  the  learner  to  evaluate  the  methods  and  tools  for 
 planning  tasks  and  activities,  as  well  as  knowing  how  to 
 implement  and  manage  project  activities,  build  stakeholder 
 relationships,  manage  resources  and  risk,  monitor  progress  and 
 report  on  outcomes. 
 Unit  552  -  Managing  Change  Change  is  inevitable  if  an  organisation  is  to  maintain 
 competitiveness  and  currency  of  practice.  This  unit  has  been 
 designed  to  enable  the  learner  to  evaluate  types  of  change  and 
 reasons  for  change  within  organisations  and  enable  the  learner  to 
 select  and  apply  theoretical  models  for  the  management  of 
 change.  The  purpose  is  not  only  to  enable  learners  to  develop 
 the  skills  to  manage  change  and  achieve  set  objectives,  but  to  do 
 so  in  a  professional  manner  with  open  and  honest 
 communication  throughout  the  entire  process 
 Unit  553  -  Operational  Planning  The  ability  to  translate  organisational  objectives  into  operational 
 plans  is  an  essential  management  skill.  The  unit  opens  with  the 
 importance  of  understanding  the  strategic  direction  of  the 
 organisation  and  how  to  contribute  to  the  strategic  planning 
 process.  It  then  focuses  on  the  knowledge  and  skills  required  to 
 create  and  deliver  operational  plans.  This  includes  the  need  to 
 set  key  performance  indicators,  monitor  quality  and  outcomes 
 against  the  plan,  and  know  how  to  effectively  report  on  findings. 
 Unit  554  -  Personal  and 
 Professional  Development  Reflective  practice  is  an  essential  management  tool  which 
 supports  the  development  of  knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours  in 
 the  workplace.  By  consciously  analysing  own  performance, 
 decision  making,  leadership  and  management  skills  (in  different 
 situational  contexts);  opportunities  for  on-going  development  can 
 be  identified.  The  aim  of  the  unit  is  to  equip  learners  with 
 understanding  of  the  value  of  reflective  practice,  and  enable  them 
 to  evidence  how  reflection  can  be  used  as  the  basis  of  a 
 meaningful  and  ongoing  personal  and  professional  development 
 plan. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  17 
 UNIT  549  -  DEVELOPING,  MANAGING  AND  LEADING 
 TEAMS 
 Ofqual  unit  number  K/650/3610 
 RQF  level  5 
 Guided  learning  hours  27 
 Total  unit  time  70 
 Credits  7 
 Aims  of  unit  The  ability  to  lead  individuals  and  teams  to  success  is  arguably  the 
 most  important  skill  a  manager  can  possess.  This  unit  focuses  on 
 the  essential  management  and  leadership  knowledge,  skills  and 
 behaviours  required  to  fulfil  this  challenging  but  rewarding  role.  The 
 unit  opens  by  focusing  on  the  theoretical  and  practical  approaches  to 
 developing,  leading,  and  managing  teams  (remote  or 
 multi-disciplinary).  The  manager  will  look  at  techniques  to  assess 
 current  and  future  team  capabilities,  including  the  role  of  recruitment, 
 selection  and  staff  development  which  supports  this.  On  successful 
 completion  of  the  unit,  the  manager  will  not  only  know  the  principles 
 of  managing  individuals  and  teams,  but  they  will  understand 
 approaches  for  supporting,  motivating  and  inspiring  teams  and 
 individuals  to  exceed  expectations. 
 Keywords  Theoretical  models,  practical  approaches,  team  leaders, 
 multi-disciplinary  and  remote  teams,  team  capabilities,  recruitment, 
 learning  and  development,  coaching  and  mentoring,  motivation,  good 
 practice,  high  performing  teams. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  18 
 UNIT  549  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA 
 Learning  Outcome  1 
 Understand  approaches  to  developing,  managing  and  leading  teams 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 1.1  Evaluate  the  use  of 
 leadership  styles  and 
 theoretical  models  for 
 developing,  managing 
 and  leading  teams  Leadership  styles  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  Managerial  Grid  (Blake  and 
 Mouton,  c.1950s),  Leadership  Continuum  (Tannenbaum  and  Schmidt,  1958), 
 Situational  Leadership  (Hersey  and  Blanchard,  1969),  Authentic  Leadership  (Goffee 
 and  Jones,  2011),  Five  Practices  of  Exemplary  Leadership  (Kouzes  and  Posner,  1987), 
 Leadership  Qualities  (Bennis,  1989),  Leadership  Styles  (Goleman,  1995), 
 Action-Centred  Leadership  (Adair,1963). 
 Theoretical  models  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  differences  between  a  group 
 and  a  team,  team  types,  Team  Roles  (Belbin,  1981),  Team  Management  Wheel 
 (Margerison  and  McCann,  1990),  Model  of  Team  Development  (Tuckman,  c.1965), 
 psychometric  assessment  tools  (e.g.  Myers-Briggs  Type  Indicator,  1943),  Drivers  of 
 Employee  Engagement  (Robinson,  Perryman  and  Hayday,  2004),  Speed  of  Trust  (Covey, 
 2008),  Conflict  Mode  Instrument  (Thomas  and  Kilman,  1974),  Emotional  Intelligence 
 (Goleman,  1995).  K1 
 K9 
 B3 
 1.2  Analyse  strategies  for 
 managing  team  leaders  Strategies  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  delegation,  monitoring  performance, 
 setting  targets,  support  and  guidance,  supervision  and  meetings,  learning  and 
 development. 
 1.3  Develop  approaches 
 to  respond  to  the 
 challenges  of  managing 
 and  leading  multiple  and 
 remote  teams  Challenges  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  use  of  communication  (methods,  types, 
 times,  frequency,  availability,  interpretation  of  communication  used,  use  of 
 technology),  access  to  business  support,  building  and  developing  relationships, 
 performance  review,  workload,  conflict  handling,  quality  and  productivity,  currency  of 
 working  practice,  time  management,  trust,  morale,  accountability,  authority  and 
 autonomy,  Five  Dysfunctions  of  a  Team  (Lencioni,  2005). 
 Learning  Outcome  2 
 Understand  approaches  to  achieving  a  balance  of  skills  and  experience  in  teams 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 2.1  Assess  the  factors 
 which  impact  on  the 
 selection  of  learning  and 
 development  activities 
 for  individuals  and 
 teams  Factors  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  budget/funding,  physical  location  of 
 team  members,  time,  availability  of  suitable  provider,  shift  patterns,  compliance 
 (including  legal  and  industry  specific  regulation  relating  to  the  sector  in  which  the 
 organisation  operates),  return  on  investment,  strategic  objectives  and  priorities, 
 learning  styles,  range  of  training  needs.  K10 
 B3 
 2.2  Examine  the  use  of 
 coaching  and  mentoring 
 models  to  support  team 
 development  Use  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  skills  and  talent  development,  embedding 
 organisational  culture  and  attitudes  to  diversity,  personal  support, 
 enhancing/improving  performance,  career  development,  retention,  engagement, 
 empowerment,  job  satisfaction,  develop  and  share  good  practice,  management  of 
 change,  communication,  relationship  development,  reflective  management, 
 self-management. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  19 
 2.3  Analyse  motivational 
 techniques  used  to 
 create  high  performing 
 teams  Motivational  techniques  refers  to  how  to  work  collaboratively  with  others, 
 motivate  and  improve  performance,  give  constructive  feedback  and  challenge 
 where  necessary,  enabling  development  within  the  workplace  and  may  include  but 
 are  not  limited  to  set  stretch  goals  and  objectives,  create  energy  and  enthusiasm, 
 inspire  others,  conflict  resolution,  increased  cooperation,  communicating  shared 
 purpose,  vision  and  direction,  building  trust,  incentives  and  rewards,  Vroom’s 
 Expectancy  Theory  (1964),  Motivation  and  Management  Systems  (Likert,  1967). 
 Learning  Outcome  3 
 Know  techniques  for  leading  individuals  and  teams  to  achieve  success 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 3.1  Analyse  a  process  for 
 recruiting  team 
 members  Process  refers  to  individual  and  team  and  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  review 
 staff  requirements,  consultation,  formulate  job  descriptions  and  person 
 specifications,  labour  market  research,  compliance  with  legal  and  organisational 
 requirements,  create  plan,  approaches  to  attracting  talent  (e.g.  advertising, 
 recommendation,  head  hunting,  internal  recruitment,  secondment,  social 
 networks),  short  list,  interview,  security  checks,  offer.  K12 
 B3 
 3.2  Explore  methods 
 used  to  monitor  and 
 manage  individual  and 
 team  performance  Methods  refer  to  performance  management  techniques  and  may  include  but  are 
 not  limited  to  HR  systems  and  processes,  internal  and  external  quality  standards, 
 audit,  qualitative  measures  (e.g.  customer  feedback,  opinions,  views,  reviews)  and 
 quantitative  measures  (e.g.  SMART  objectives,  key  performance  indicators  (KPIs), 
 scorecards  (e.g.  Balanced  Scorecard,  Kaplan  and  Norton,  1992),  error  rates, 
 output,  benchmarks  and  targets),  service  level  agreements  (SLAs),  speed  of 
 response,  structured  performance  reviews,  180  o  /360  o  feedback,  disciplinary 
 procedures. 
 Learning  Outcome  4 
 Be  able  to  apply  your  skills  in  managing  talent  and  performance 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 4.1  Outline  practical 
 approaches  for  effective 
 team  management  and 
 leadership  Practical  approaches  refer  to  communicate  organisational  vision  and  goals  and 
 how  these  apply  to  the  department  and  teams,  and  may  include  but  are  not  limited 
 to  motivation  through  empowerment,  delegation,  collective  ownership,  conflict 
 handling,  creating  a  trusting  environment,  building  resilience,  taking 
 responsibility  versus  blame  culture,  collaboration,  fairness  and  parity,  work 
 allocation,  cultural  awareness,  individual  and  team  development.  S9 
 S12 
 S18 
 B3 
 B5 
 4.2  Evaluate  techniques 
 for  assessing  current  and 
 future  team  capabilities 
 and  requirements  Techniques  refer  to  identifying  strengths  and  enabling  development  within  the 
 workplace  and  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  analysis  of  skills  and  experience 
 (individuals  and  teams)  against  current  organisational  requirements  (e.g.  aims 
 and  objectives),  identification  of  future  organisational  need  (e.g.  organisational 
 strategy,  projects,  plans,  production  plans),  skills  matrix,  capability  assessment, 
 structured  performance  reviews,  identification  of  skills  and  experience  gaps. 
 4.3  Formulate  good 
 practice  for  enabling  and 
 supporting  high 
 performing  teams  Good  practice  refers  to  manage  talent  and  performance  and  may  include  but  are 
 not  limited  to  active  listening,  feedback,  constructive  criticism,  action  planning 
 including  PIPS  (performance  improvement  plans),  training,  coaching  or 
 mentoring,  formal  performance  management  processes,  rewards,  incentives, 
 recognition  and  praise,  Psychological  Contract  (Roussea,  1989) 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  20 
 UNIT  550  -  STAKEHOLDER  RELATIONSHIPS 
 Ofqual  unit  number  L/650/3611 
 RQF  level  5 
 Guided  learning  hours  18 
 Total  unit  time  50 
 Credits  5 
 Aims  of  unit  Good  relationships,  whether  they  are  with  customers,  suppliers, 
 partners  or  staff,  are  a  key  contributor  to  an  organisation’s  success. 
 To  build  stakeholder  relationships  that  are  long  lasting  and 
 sustainable,  they  need  to  be  planned  and  developed.  This  unit 
 explores  the  types  and  purposes  of  stakeholder  relationships  and  the 
 knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours  required  to  overcome  challenges 
 and  manage  these  effectively. 
 Keywords  Stakeholder  relationships,  benefits  and  challenges,  contractual 
 framework,  process,  planning  engagement,  role  of  the  manager, 
 communication  skills,  collaborative  working  techniques,  strategies  for 
 managing  conflict,  impact  of  stakeholder  engagement 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  21 
 UNIT  550  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA 
 Learning  Outcome  1 
 Understand  the  different  types  and  value  of  stakeholder  relationships 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 1.1  Analyse  the  types  of 
 stakeholder  relationships 
 within  organisations  Stakeholder  relationships  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to: 
 Internal:  team  members,  line  managers,  senior  managers,  board  members 
 External:  customers,  pressure  groups,  government  agencies;  connected:  suppliers, 
 partners,  contractor;  balance  of  power,  value,  impact,  power/interest  (Freeman, 
 1984;  Eden  and  Ackerman,  1998).  K13 
 1.2  Examine  the 
 contractual  frameworks 
 for  stakeholder 
 engagement  and 
 management  Contractual  frameworks  may  include  agreements  (e.g.  service  level  and  trade 
 union  agreements),  contracts,  compliance  (legislation  and  regulation),  governance.  K16 
 1.3  Analyse  the  role  of  the 
 manager  in  managing 
 stakeholder  relationships  Role  may  also  include  but  is  not  limited  to  clarifying  needs  and  expectations, 
 developing  and  implementing  plans,  allocating  resources,  ensuring  agreements  are 
 met,  reviewing  effectiveness. 
 Learning  Outcome  2 
 Understand  the  methods  and  challenges  of  working  collaboratively  with  stakeholders 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 2.1  Evaluate  the  use  of 
 collaborative  working 
 techniques  to  manage 
 stakeholder  relationships  Collaborative  working  techniques  refers  to  enable  delivery  through  others, 
 building  trust  (e.g.  Svendsen,  1998),  negotiating,  influencing  and  effective 
 networking  ,  identifying  and  sharing  best  practice;  and  may  also  include  but  is  not 
 limited  to  assertiveness,  problem  solving,  consulting,  active  listening,  respect, 
 consensus,  equal  concern  for  task  and  people  (Blake  and  Mouton,  c1950s),  agreeing 
 shared  goals,  diversity,  empowering  others,  involvement  (Friedman  and  Miles,  2006 
 and  Egan,  2011,  Bourne,  2009).  K14 
 2.2  Outline  methods  for 
 managing  conflict  in 
 stakeholder  engagement  Methods  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  investigation,  negotiation,  mediation, 
 compromise,  arbitration.  Conflict  refers  to  managing  conflict  at  all  levels  (e.g. 
 seniority,  cross-functional).  K15 
 B2 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  22 
 Learning  Outcome  3 
 Be  able  to  manage  stakeholder  relationships  effectively 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 3.1  Examine  the  benefits 
 and  challenges  for 
 organisations  working 
 with  different  stakeholder 
 groups  Benefits  refer  to  identifying  and  sharing  best  practice,  use  specialist  advice  and 
 support  to  deliver  against  plans  and  may  also  include  but  are  not  limited  to  access 
 to  expertise,  financial,  achievement  of  objectives,  corporate  social  responsibility, 
 quality. 
 Challenges  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  authority,  change  management, 
 intellectual  property,  conflict  of  interest,  differences  in  culture,  values  and  beliefs, 
 leadership  conflict,  confidentiality,  information  sharing.  S13 
 S14 
 S15 
 B4 
 B5 
 3.2  Recommend  a  process 
 for  planning  stakeholder 
 engagement  Process  refers  to  approaches  to  partner,  stakeholder  and  supplier  relationship 
 management  including  negotiation,  influencing  and  effective  networking  and  may 
 include  but  is  not  limited  to  stakeholder  types  and  needs,  objectives,  risk/value, 
 engagement  methods,  reporting,  timescales,  authority. 
 Learning  Outcome  4 
 Know  methods  for  measuring  the  impact  of  stakeholder  engagement  on  organisational  performance 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 4.1  Examine  methods  for 
 measuring  the  impact  of 
 stakeholder  engagement 
 on  organisational 
 performance  Methods  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  inspection,  audit,  impact  assessment, 
 cost  benefit  analysis. 
 Impact  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  reputation,  advocacy,  support,  trust, 
 perception,  attrition,  opportunity  cost,  achievement  of  objectives.  S13 
 S14 
 S15 
 B4 
 B5 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  23 
 UNIT  551  -  MANAGING  A  PROJECT 
 Ofqual  unit  number  M/650/3612 
 RQF  level  5 
 Guided  learning  hours  24 
 Total  unit  time  80 
 Credits  8 
 Aims  of  unit  The  ability  to  manage  projects  is  a  vital  skill  for  all  managers. 
 This  unit  focuses  on  the  knowledge  and  skills  required  to  manage 
 projects  successfully  and  overcome  problems  and  challenges.  It 
 requires  the  learner  to  evaluate  the  methods  and  tools  for 
 planning  tasks  and  activities,  as  well  as  knowing  how  to 
 implement  and  manage  project  activities,  build  stakeholder 
 relationships,  manage  resources  and  risk,  monitor  progress  and 
 report  on  outcomes. 
 Keywords  Projects,  risk,  planning,  finance,  resources,  stakeholders,  project 
 risk,  project  activities,  Gantt,  planning,  methodologies, 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  24 
 UNIT  551  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA 
 Learning  Outcome  1 
 Understand  principles  and  processes  for  initiating,  planning  and  managing  projects 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 1.1  Define  the 
 principles  of  project 
 management  Principles  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  definitions  of  the  term  ‘project’, 
 projects  vs  BAU  (Business  as  Usual).  Stages  of  the  Project  Lifecycle  K6 
 K7 
 K8 
 B1 
 B4  1.2  Explain  the  purpose 
 of  projects  in  delivering 
 organisational  goal  Purpose  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  delivering  organisation’s  strategy,  achieve 
 competitive  advantage,  innovation,  support  decision  making,  enable  change. 
 1.3  Outline  the  process 
 for  initiating  projects  Process  refers  to  project  management  and  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  the 
 creation  of  project  initiation  documents,  defining  purpose,  aims,  objectives,  key 
 performance  indicators  (KPIs),  scope,  deliverables,  constraints,  quality,  assumptions, 
 development  of  formal  business  case,  success  criteria,  resource  requirements  (people, 
 finance,  equipment,  time),  Cost  Benefit  Analysis  (CBA),  risk  analysis  and  assessment, 
 defining  project  organisation,  project  team  roles,  stakeholder  analysis, 
 communications  strategy,  select  technology 
 1.4  Examine  the  tools 
 and  techniques  to  plan 
 and  manage  projects  in 
 different  contexts  Tools  and  techniques  refers  to  how  to  set  up,  plan,  organise  and  manage  a  project 
 and  resources  using  relevant  tools  and  techniques  and  may  include  but  are  not 
 limited  to  Gantt  charts,  milestone  charts,  network  diagrams,  project  plans,  Critical 
 Path  Analysis  (CPA),  Work  Breakdown  Structure  (WBS),  Responsibility  assignment 
 matrix  (RACI),  Risk  Register,  project  methodologies  (e.g.  PRINCE2,  Agile  or  other 
 organisational  specific  methodologies). 
 Different  contexts  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  projects  of  different  size,  level 
 of  risk  and  complexity,  internal  or  external,  timescales,  series  of  projects  or  one  of  a 
 kind,  project  types  (e.g.  administrative,  construction,  IT,  equipment  or  system 
 installation,  event  or  relocation,  new  product  or  service  development,  research, 
 Human  Resource  management/restructure). 
 Learning  Outcome  2 
 Know  the  impact  of  legal,  organisational  and  ethical  factors  on  projects 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 2.1  Examine  the  impact 
 of  legal,  organisational 
 and  ethical  factors  on 
 projects  Legal  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  Health  and  Safety  at  Work  Act  1974,  Data 
 Protection  Act  2018/General  Data  Protection  Regulation  2018,  Freedom  of 
 Information  Act  2000,  Sale  of  Goods  Act  1979,  Equality  Act  2010,  Digital  Economy 
 Bill  2016,  Working  Time  Directive  1998,  Safeguarding  Vulnerable  Groups  Act 
 (SVGA),  2006,  Communication  Act  2003. 
 Organisational  refers  to  data  security  and  management  and  may  include  but  is  not 
 limited  to  performance  standards,  customer  service  charters,  HR  and  health  and 
 safety  policies,  safety  and  security,  information  security,  confidentiality,  conflict  of 
 interest,  equality  and  diversity,  communication,  knowledge  sharing  protocols, 
 procurement  policies  and  procedures,  risk  assessment,  Lean  production,  quality 
 standards  and  policies,  whistle  blowing. 
 Ethical  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  professional  codes  of  conduct,  K20 
 K5 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  25 
 sustainability,  corporate  social  responsibility,  organisational  values  and  culture, 
 equality,  diversity  and  inclusion. 
 Learning  Outcome  3 
 Be  able  to  design,  develop  and  manage  a  project  to  achieve  results 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 3.1  Create  a  project 
 proposal  to  deliver  an 
 organisational  goal  Project  proposal  refers  to  the  component  elements  including:  business  case, 
 feasibility  study,  scope  of  project,  key  performance  indicators,  justification,  expected 
 deliverables/outcomes,  implementation  plan,  budget  and  resourcing  (cost,  time  and 
 quality),  top  level  Work  Breakdown  Structure,  tools  and  techniques  to  control  the 
 project,  stakeholder  matrix.  S5 
 S6 
 S7 
 S8 
 S14 
 S17 
 S22 
 B1 
 B2 
 B3 
 B4  3.2  Consider  methods 
 for  reporting  on  project 
 outcomes  Methods  refer  to  the  effective  use  of  technology  in  an  organisation,  the  production  of 
 reports  providing  management  information  and  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to 
 other  forms  of  communication  such  as  newsletters,  notice  boards,  letters,  memos, 
 emails,  briefings  and  meetings,  presentations  and  briefings,  video  conferencing, 
 intranet,  emails,  blogs,  discussion  forums,  podcasts  and  webinars. 
 3.3  Specify  methods  of 
 managing  data  and 
 information  in  a  project 
 environment  Data  and  information  refers  to  the  effective  use  of  technology  in  an  organisation, 
 data  security  and  management  and  the  collation,  analysis  and  interpretation  of  data 
 and  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  assessing  characteristics  of  data  and 
 information  (accuracy,  validity,  reliability,  timeliness,  relevance,  completeness). 
 3.4  Examine 
 approaches  to  identify, 
 manage  and  mitigate 
 project  risks  Identify  and  manage  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  internal  and  external 
 risks,  monitoring  and  managing  costs  in  respects  of  expected  and  unexpected  loss, 
 net  social  cost  benefit,  employing  risk  mitigation  techniques,  improving  ICT  systems 
 and  procedures,  up-skilling  staff,  avoid  high  risks,  monitoring  risk  using  effective  risk 
 reporting,  senior  management  involvement,  stress  testing,  event  analysis. 
 Mitigate  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  transferring  risk,  use  of  insurance  policies, 
 contingency  planning,  disaster  planning,  alternative  risk  transfer,  risk  avoidance, 
 minimisation,  prevention  and  prediction  of  risk 
 Learning  Outcome  4 
 Be  able  to  monitor  and  manage  the  factors  which  contribute  to  effective  project  management 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 4.1  Evaluate  methods 
 used  for  monitoring 
 project  progress  Methods  used  for  monitoring  project  progress  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to 
 project  meetings  and  huddles  to  time,  quality  and  cost  status,  financial  budgeting, 
 maintaining  logs  of  quality  issues  and  exceptions,  planned  vs  actual  monitoring 
 forms,  risk  review. 
 Evaluating  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  performance  (qualitative  and 
 quantitative)  against  outcomes.  S5 
 S6 
 S7 
 S8 
 S14 
 S17 
 S22 
 B1 
 B2 
 B3 
 B4  4.2  Use  effective 
 problem  solving  and 
 decision  making 
 techniques  when 
 managing  projects  Problem  solving  and  decision  making  techniques  may  include  but  are  not  limited 
 to  root  cause  analysis,  Fishbone  Analysis  (Ishikawa,  c.1960s),  Plan  Do  Check  Act 
 Cycle  (PDCA)  (Deming,  c.1950s),  Pareto  Principle  (Juran,  c.1937),  Cost  Benefit 
 Analysis  (CBA),  Return  On  Investment  (ROI),  Options  Appraisal,  OODA  Loop  (Boyd, 
 1998),  PMI  (Plus  Minus  Interesting)  (De  Bono,  2002),  Ladder  of  Inference  (Senge, 
 2006),  options  appraisal 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  26 
 4.3  Outline  approaches 
 for  project  closure  Approaches  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  administrative  closure  (e.g. 
 handover,  team  celebration,  feedback  from  stakeholders,  lessons  learned/good 
 practice  workshops,  re-allocate  resources,  finalise  accounts,  archive  data  and 
 information,  knowledge  management,  Post-Implementation  Review  (PIR),  contract 
 closure  (e.g.  terms  and  conditions,  exit  criteria). 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  27 
 UNIT  552  -  MANAGING  CHANGE 
 Ofqual  unit  number  T/650/3614 
 RQF  level  5 
 Guided  learning  hours  19 
 Total  unit  time  70 
 Credits  7 
 Aims  of  unit  Change  is  inevitable  if  an  organisation  is  to  maintain  competitiveness 
 and  currency  of  practice.  This  unit  has  been  designed  to  enable  the 
 learner  to  evaluate  types  of  change  and  reasons  for  change  within 
 organisations  and  enable  the  learner  to  select  and  apply  theoretical 
 models  for  the  management  of  change.  The  purpose  is  not  only  to 
 enable  learners  to  develop  the  skills  to  manage  change  and  achieve 
 set  objectives,  but  to  do  so  in  a  professional  manner  with  open  and 
 honest  communication  throughout  the  entire  process. 
 Keywords  Change  management  models,  stakeholder  engagement  and  support, 
 plans,  tools  and  techniques,  barriers  and  risks,  drivers  of  change, 
 monitor,  evaluation,  reporting,  embedding  and  sustaining  change. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  28 
 UNIT  552  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA 
 Learning  Outcome  1 
 Understand  the  reasons  for  change  in  organisations 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 1.1  Analyse  the  external 
 factors  which  influence 
 change  in  organisations  External  factors  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  political,  legal,  regulatory,  social, 
 economic,  technological  and  innovation,  environmental,  competition,  ethics  and 
 regulation.  K11 
 B4 
 B5 
 1.2  Analyse  the  internal 
 factors  that  drive  the 
 need  for  change  in 
 organisations  Internal  factors  refers  to  organisational  cultures,  diversity  and  their  impact  on 
 leading  and  managing  change  and  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  organisational 
 performance,  emerging  strategy,  governance,  feedback,  ideas  and  innovation, 
 attrition,  chaos  and  conversation. 
 1.3  Evaluate  the  use  of 
 theoretical  models  for 
 managing  change  Theoretical  models  may  be  selected  in  relation  to  appropriateness  for  type  of 
 change  and  situation,  complexity  of  change  and  organisation  (Oswick,  2015,  Radical 
 Change  within  Traditional  Structures;  Mayon  White,  1993,  Change  Management 
 Intervention  Strategy;  Nadler  and  Tushan,  1985,  Organisational  Congruence  Model; 
 Lewin,  1947,  Three  Step  Change  Management  Model  (Freeze-Change-Refreeze); 
 Kotter,  1996,  8  Steps  model;  Burke  and  Litwin,  1992,  Model  of  Organisational  Change 
 and  Performance;  Beckhard-Harris,  1987,  Change  Equation;  Moss  Kanter,  1983,  The 
 Change  Masters;  Hailey  and  Balogun,  2002,  The  Change  Kaleidoscope). 
 1.4  Examine  the 
 potential  impact  of 
 change  in  organisations  Potential  impact  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  achieve  objectives,  change  market 
 positioning,  improve  efficiency,  improve  quality,  develop  best  practice,  shift  culture, 
 develop  innovation  and  creativity,  improve  performance,  systems  and  processes, 
 change  technology.  Effective  use  of  delegation  to  develop  and  manage  individuals  and 
 teams. 
 Learning  Outcome  2 
 Understand  approaches  to  change  management 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 2.1  Outline  the 
 rationale  for  initiating 
 change  within  an 
 organisation  Rationale  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  benefits,  business  case,  impact, 
 consequences/risks.  K4 
 B1 
 B2 
 B4 
 B5 
 2.2  Explore  approaches 
 to  embed  and  sustain 
 planned  change  in  an 
 organisation  Approaches  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  overcoming  barriers,  meeting 
 objectives,  achieving  planned  benefits,  periodic  monitoring,  key  performance 
 indicators  (KPIs),  continuous  professional  development  (CPD)  requirements. 
 2.3  Analyse  the  role  of 
 leadership  in 
 identifying  and 
 overcoming  barriers  to  Role  of  leadership  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  leadership  styles,  Situational 
 Leadership  (Hersey  and  Blanchard,  1977),  timescales,  negotiating  and  influencing 
 skills,  Having  Difficult  Conversations  (Scott,  2002),  Emotional  Intelligence  (Goleman, 
 1998),  collaborative  working  techniques,  resilience  and  accountability,  openness, 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  29 
 change  positive  and  adaptable,  open  to  feedback. 
 2.4  Identify  reasons  for 
 engaging  with 
 stakeholders 
 throughout  the  change 
 management  process  Stakeholders  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  internal:  team  members,  line 
 managers,  senior  managers,  board  members;  external:  customers,  pressure  groups, 
 government  agencies;  connected:  suppliers,  partners,  contractors. 
 Learning  Outcome  3 
 Be  able  to  initiate,  plan  and  manage  change  in  an  organisation 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 3.1  Develop  a  plan  for 
 change  within  an 
 organisation  Plan  for  change  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  objectives,  actions,  stages, 
 milestones,  resources,  timescales,  deadlines,  responsibilities,  measures  (Lewin,  c1940s, 
 Force  Field  Analysis;  Hiatt,  2003,  ADKAR).  S2 
 S3 
 S9 
 S10 
 S11 
 S16 
 S17 
 S21 
 B1 
 B2 
 B4  3.2  Develop  strategies 
 for  communicating 
 planned  change  to 
 stakeholders  Communicating  refers  to  chairing  meetings  and  presenting  using  a  range  of  media 
 and  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  internal  and  external  communication, 
 consultation,  huddles,  meetings  and  briefings,  webinars,  podcasts,  conference  calls, 
 blog  posts,  presentations,  letters  and  newsletters,  articles,  case  studies. 
 3.3  Recommend 
 practical  methods  to 
 support  individuals 
 throughout  the  change 
 management  process  Practical  methods  refers  to  supporting  people  and  enabling  high  performance 
 through  coaching  and  mentoring,  learning  and  development,  supervision,  one-to-one 
 meetings,  team  meetings,  workshops,  setting  an  example,  use  of  specialist  advice  and 
 support. 
 3.4  Identify  tools  for 
 implementing  and 
 monitoring  change  Tools  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  time  management  and  prioritisation 
 techniques,  roadmaps,  flowcharts,  cultural  mapping,  process  maps,  readiness 
 assessments,  Gantt  charts,  communication  and  project  plans,  IT  applications 
 3.5  Recommend 
 approaches  to 
 overcome  risks  and 
 barriers  to  change  Risks  and  barriers  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  organisational  (splinter 
 groups,  logistical  barrier  e.g.  remote  working,  shift  work,  rising  costs,  changing 
 priorities,  delay  tactics);  personal  (Kubler  Ross,  1960)  (hostility,  sense  of  loss, 
 resistance  to  change,  depression,  refusal  to  engage). 
 3.6  Analyse  methods 
 for  measuring  and 
 monitoring  the  impact 
 of  planned  change  Methods  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  periodic  reporting,  surveys  and 
 questionnaires,  interviews,  benchmarking  activities,  mystery  shopper,  scorecards, 
 data  and  metrics,  audits,  targets,  workshops,  observation,  conversations. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  30 
 UNIT  553  -  OPERATIONAL  PLANNING 
 Ofqual  unit  number  R/650/3613 
 RQF  level  5 
 Guided  learning  hours  22 
 Total  unit  time  80 
 Credits  8 
 Aims  of  unit  The  ability  to  translate  organisational  objectives  into  operational  plans  is 
 an  essential  management  skill.  The  unit  opens  with  the  importance  of 
 understanding  the  strategic  direction  of  the  organisation  and  how  to 
 contribute  to  the  strategic  planning  process.  It  then  focuses  on  the 
 knowledge  and  skills  required  to  create  and  deliver  operational  plans. 
 This  includes  the  need  to  set  key  performance  indicators,  monitor 
 quality  and  outcomes  against  the  plan,  and  know  how  to  effectively 
 report  on  findings. 
 Keywords  Strategic  objectives,  operational  planning,  key  performance  indicators, 
 continuous  improvement,  setting  targets,  contingency  planning, 
 delivering  operational  plan,  time  management,  managing  resources, 
 problem  solving,  decision  making,  monitoring  and  measuring  outcomes. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  31 
 UNIT  553  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA 
 Learning  Outcome  1 
 Understand  the  principles  of  operational  planning  in  an  organisation 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 1.1  Assess  the 
 relationship  between  an 
 organisation’s  strategic 
 objectives  and 
 operational  planning  Relationship  refers  to  the  input  into  strategic  planning  and  may  include  but  is  not 
 limited  to  the  vision,  mission,  aims  and  objectives  (also  known  as  the  Golden 
 Thread),  values  and  ethics,  the  translation  of  strategic  goals  into  deliverables,  links 
 between/roles  of  different  operational  areas.  K1 
 1.2  Evaluate  the  use  of 
 approaches  to 
 operational  planning  Approaches  refer  to  operational  business  planning  techniques  and  approaches 
 including  managing  multiple  tasks,  resource  management,  setting  targets  and  key 
 performance  indicators  (KPIs),  business  development  tools  e.g.  SWOT  and 
 approaches  to  continuous  improvement  and  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to 
 stakeholder  consultation,  cost  benefit  analysis,  risk  analysis,  contingency  planning, 
 quality  (e.g.  LEAN  methods),  supply  chain  and  capacity  planning,  setting  SMART 
 targets,  work  breakdown  structure,  Plan,  Do  Check  Act  (Deming,  c.1950s), 
 Stakeholder  Management  (Freeman,  1984;  Eden  and  Ackerman,  1998).  K2 
 Learning  Outcome  2 
 Know  how  to  create  an  effective  operational  plan 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 2.1  Assess  methods  of 
 managing  and  leading 
 the  delivery  of  an 
 operational  plan  Methods  refer  to  effective  delegation  and  enabling  delivery  through  others,  using 
 specialist  advice  and  support  to  deliver  against  plans,  managing  resources  (e.g. 
 budget  allocation,  availability  and  quality  of  supplies,  supply  chain  management, 
 reliability  of  equipment,  contingency  arrangements),  monitoring  performance 
 against  plans,  use  of  time  management  and  prioritisation  techniques  and  tools  and 
 may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  managing  multiple  tasks,  communication  of 
 plans,  briefings,  learning  and  development  (including  development  for  licence  to 
 practise),  coaching  mentoring  and  motivation  of  staff,  performance  management, 
 management  of  virtual,  multiple  and  remote  teams.  K3 
 K18 
 2.2  Review  techniques 
 for  problem  solving  and 
 decision  making  Techniques  refer  to  use  of  critical  analysis  and  evaluation  to  support  decision 
 making  and  use  of  effective  problem  solving  techniques  and  may  include  but  are  not 
 limited  to  Root  Cause  Analysis  (RCA),  Fishbone  Diagram  (Ishikawa,  c.1968), 
 brainstorming,  mind  mapping,  action  planning,  Six  Thinking  Hats  (DeBono,  1986), 
 Ladder  of  Inference  (Senge,  2006),  Rational  Decision-Making  (Kepner-Tregoe, 
 1965).  K19 
 2.3  Assess  the  ethical 
 requirements  that 
 influence  an  operational 
 plan  Ethics  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  code  of  conduct,  sustainability,  corporate 
 social  responsibility,  organisational  values  and  culture,  equality  and  diversity.  K20 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  32 
 Learning  Outcome  3 
 Be  able  to  manage  and  lead  the  delivery  of  an  operational  plan 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 3.1  Create  an 
 operational  plan  in  line 
 with  organisational 
 objectives  Operational  plan  refers  to  operational  business  planning  techniques,  create  plans 
 in  line  with  organisational  objectives,  setting  key  performance  indicators  (KPIs)  and 
 SMART  targets,  (Ten-step  Target  Setting  Process,  Bourne  and  Franco-Santos,  2010), 
 ability  to  demonstrate  commercial  awareness  and  identify  and  shape  new 
 opportunities,  plan,  organise  and  manage  resources,  management  systems, 
 processes  and  contingency  planning,  management  of  multiple  tasks,  monitoring 
 performance  against  plans  and  development  of  sales  and  marketing  plans.  The  plan 
 may  be  in  the  form  of  a  short,  medium,  long  term  or  interval  plan  and  may  include 
 but  is  not  limited  to  aims,  relationship  to  organisational  objectives,  analysis  of  data, 
 assessment  of  current  capability,  gap  analysis,  assessing  supply  and  resources 
 (including  partner/supplier  arrangements),  risk  management,  budget  allocation, 
 production  methods,  service  delivery,  use  of  specialist  advice,  communications  plan, 
 implementation  and  review,  data  and  performance  measures,  conclusions  and 
 recommendations.  S1 
 S3 
 S4 
 S6 
 S15 
 S16 
 B2 
 B3 
 B5 
 Learning  Outcome  4 
 Be  able  to  monitor  and  measure  the  outcome  of  operational  planning 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 4.1  Evaluate  methods 
 used  to  monitor 
 progress  and  measure 
 the  outcomes  of 
 operational  plans  Methods  refer  to  key  performance  indicators  (KPIs),  setting  targets  and  monitoring 
 performance  against  plans,  continuous  improvement  cycle  (including  quality  audits 
 and  quality  control),  input  into  strategic  planning,  produce  reports  and  provide 
 management  information  based  on  the  collation,  analysis  and  interpretation  of  data 
 (including  metrics  and  analytics)  and  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to 
 quantitative  (e.g.  profitability,  contribution  to  overheads,  securing  future 
 business/contracts,  repeat  business)  and  qualitative  (e.g.  reputation,  retention  and 
 loyalty,  customer  and  employee  feedback,  satisfaction  levels,  ability  to  attract 
 new/retain  customers/staff,  staff  performance,  achievement  of  awards  and 
 accolades,  growth  and  innovation).  S1 
 S5 
 B1 
 B4 
 4.2  Examine  the  impact 
 of  legal  and 
 organisational  factors 
 on  an  operational  plan  Legal  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  Health  and  Safety  at  Work  Act  1974, 
 Consumer  Protection  Act  1987,  Data  Protection  Act  (2018),  General  Data  Protection 
 Regulation  (GDPR)  2018,  Freedom  of  Information  Act  2000,  Sale  of  Goods  Act  1979, 
 Equality  Act  2010,  Digital  Economy  Bill,  2016,  Working  Time  Directive,  1998, 
 Safeguarding  Vulnerable  Groups  Act  (SVGA),  2006,  Communication  Act  2003  and 
 industry  specific  regulations. 
 Organisational  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  performance  standards,  customer 
 service  charters,  policies  and  procedures  for  human  resources,  health  and  safety, 
 safety  and  security,  equality  and  diversity,  communication  and  data  protection, 
 procurement,  risk  assessment,  LEAN  production,  quality  standards 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  33 
 UNIT  554  -  PERSONAL  AND  PROFESSIONAL 
 DEVELOPMENT 
 Ofqual  unit  number  Y/650/3615 
 RQF  level  5 
 Guided  learning 
 hours  16 
 Total  unit  time  60 
 Credits  6 
 Aims  of  unit  Reflective  practice  is  an  essential  management  tool  which  supports  the 
 development  of  knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours  in  the  workplace.  By 
 consciously  analysing  own  performance,  decision  making,  leadership  and 
 management  skills  (in  different  situational  contexts);  opportunities  for 
 on-going  development  can  be  identified.  The  aim  of  the  unit  is  to  equip 
 learners  with  understanding  of  the  value  of  reflective  practice,  and  enable 
 them  to  evidence  how  reflection  can  be  used  as  the  basis  of  a  meaningful 
 and  ongoing  personal  and  professional  development  plan. 
 Keywords  Professional  development,  reflection,  continuous,  performance,  working 
 style,  opportunities,  planning,  professional  practice,  currency  of  practice, 
 licence  to  practise,  development  needs,  learning  and  development. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  34 
 UNIT  554  -  LEARNING  OUTCOMES  &  ASSESSMENT  CRITERIA 
 Learning  Outcome  1 
 Understand  the  value  of  reflective  practice  to  inform  personal  and  professional  development 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 1.1  Analyse  the 
 importance  of 
 continuous  personal 
 and  professional 
 development  in 
 achieving  organisational 
 objectives  Continuous  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  life-long  learning,  maintaining  current 
 skills  and  knowledge,  effectiveness,  impact,  achievement. 
 Personal  knowledge  and  skills  that  may  not  relate  to  a  current  or  future  work  role  e.g. 
 learning  a  language,  mindfulness,  fitness  and  sport. 
 Professional  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  knowledge  and  skills  that  directly 
 relate  to  a  current  or  future  work  role  e.g.  a  job-related  qualification,  professional 
 membership  or  status,  on  job  training  (Pedler, 
 Burgoyne,  Boydell  (2007),  Mullins  (2013),  Torrington  et  al  (2008)).  K17 
 B1 
 B4 
 1.2  Evaluate  the  use  of 
 reflective  practice  in 
 personal  and 
 professional 
 development  Reflective  practice  may  include  but  is  not  limited  to  self-management,  develop 
 insights,  reflexivity,  decision  making  in  different  situational  contexts,  critical  reflection 
 to  assess  skills,  competencies,  behaviours  of  professionalism,  self-awareness,  resilience, 
 Emotional  Intelligence  (Goleman,  1995). 
 1.3  Evaluate  approaches 
 to  reflective  practice  Approaches  may  include  but  are  not  limited  to  learning  cycle,  deep  and  surface 
 learning,  appraisal  including  self  and  peer  review,  360  degree  feedback,  methods  of 
 setting  goals  and  reviewing  progress,  group  and  individual  learning,  (Model  of 
 Structured  Reflection,  Johns,  1994),  Reflective  Cycle  (Gibbs,  1995),  Learning  Cycle 
 (Kolb,  1984). 
 Learning  Outcome  2 
 Be  able  to  apply  reflective  practice  to  inform  personal  and  professional  development 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 2.1  Evaluate  own 
 performance  in  the 
 workplace  using 
 principles  of  reflection  Own  performance  refers  to 
 current  knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours  against  role  requirement  (current  or  future 
 role)  and/or  against  short,  medium  and  long  term  requirements  of  the  role, 
 organisational  objectives  and  professional  standards  (CMI  Management  Diagnostics)  S19 
 B3 
 B4 
 B5 
 2.2  Reflect  on  own 
 working  style  and  its 
 impact  on  others  in  the 
 workplace  Working  style  may  also  include  but  is  not  limited  to  Team  Roles  (Belbin,  1981),  Type 
 Indicator  (Myers  Brigg,  1943),  Transactional  Analysis  (Berne,  c.1950),  Drivers  (Kasozi 
 and  Dehaan,  2014),  Co-worker  relationships  (McIntyre,  2011),  behavioural  profiling 
 and  assessments  e.g.  DISC  (Tate,  2014),  Team  Wheel  (Margerison  and  McCann,  1989). 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  35 
 Learning  Outcome  3 
 Be  able  to  create  an  informed  personal  and  professional  development  plan 
 Assessment  Criteria  Indicative  Content  KSB 
 3.1  Analyse 
 development  needs  for 
 current  and  future  roles  Development  needs  refer  to  knowledge,  skills  and  behaviours. 
 Analysis  refers  to  conducting  a  skills  gap  analysis  against  short,  medium  and  long  term 
 skills  needed  and  professional  standards  S20 
 B1 
 B2 
 B4 
 B5 
 3.2  Examine 
 development 
 opportunities  to  meet 
 short,  medium  and  long 
 term  objectives  Development  opportunities  refer  to  learning  styles  and  may  include  but  are  not 
 limited  to  formal  and  informal,  social  and  collaborative  learning,  on  the  job  and  off  the 
 job,  face  to  face,  blended  or  online  learning,  coaching  and  mentoring. 
 3.3  Create  a  personal 
 development  plan  with 
 measurable  objectives  Personal  development  plan  refers  to  short,  medium  and  long  term  time  bound 
 objectives,  SMART  objectives,  development  needs,  resources,  support,  development 
 opportunities,  review  and  evaluation  methods. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  36 
 ANNEX  1  -  COMMAND  VERB  DEFINITIONS 
 Command 
 Verb  Definition 
 Analyse  Break  the  subject  or  complex  situation(s)  into  separate  parts  and  examine  each 
 part  in  detail;  identify  the  main  issues  and  show  how  the  main  ideas  are  related  to 
 practice  and  why  they  are  important.  Reference  to  current  research  or  theory  may 
 support  the  analysis. 
 Apply  To  bring  or  put  into  operation  a  theory,  concept  or  process  to  achieve  an  outcome 
 Appraise  Assess,  estimate  the  worth,  value,  quality,  performance.  Consider  carefully  to  form 
 an  opinion. 
 Articulate  Express  or  clearly  state  your  understanding  of  the  topic. 
 Assess  Provide  a  reasoned  judgement  or  rationale  of  the  standard,  quality,  value  or 
 importance  of  something,  informed  by  relevant  facts/rationale. 
 Comment  Identify  and  write  about  the  main  issues,  express  an  opinion,  giving  reaction  to 
 what  has  been  read/observed. 
 Compare  Review  the  subject(s)  in  detail  –  looking  at  similarities  and  differences. 
 Complete  Ensure  something  is  finished  with  all  of  its  parts. 
 Conceptualise  Create  a  diagram,  model,  chart  or  graphic  with  annotations,  providing  a  holistic 
 overview  of  the  process. 
 Conduct  Organise  and  perform  a  particular  activity. 
 Construct  To  create  or  build  something  original. 
 Consider  Take  (something)  into  account  (for  example,  different  ideas,  perspectives, 
 theories,  evidence)  when  making  a  judgement. 
 Construct  To  create  or  build  something  original. 
 Create  Originate  or  produce  a  solution  to  a  problem. 
 Critically 
 Appraise  As  with  appraise,  a  systematic  process  used  to  identify  the  strengths  and 
 weaknesses  of  information  in  order  to  assess  the  usefulness  and  validity. 
 Critically 
 Assess  As  with  assess,  but  emphasising  on  judgments  made  about  arguments  by  others, 
 and  about  what  is  being  assessed  from  a  different  perspective.  Making  a 
 reasoned  argument,  based  on  judgments.  Criticality  requires  the  consideration  of 
 the  validity  of  sources  used.  Critical  assessment  not  only  considers  the  evidence 
 above  but  also  the  strength  of  the  evidence  based  on  the  validity  of  the  method  of 
 evidence  compilation. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  37 
 Critically 
 Analyse  As  with  analyse,  but  questioning  and  testing  the  strength  of  a  person  and/or 
 others’  analyses  from  different  perspectives.  Using  the  process  of  analysis  to 
 make  an  objective  and  reasoned  argument.  Criticality  requires  the  consideration 
 of  the  validity  of  sources  used.  Critical  analysis  not  only  considers  the  evidence 
 above  but  also  the  strength  of  the  evidence  based  on  the  validity  of  the  method  of 
 evidence  compilation. 
 Critically 
 Discuss  As  with  discuss,  but  evaluating  the  pros  and  cons  of  the  subject  in  hand  critically. 
 Discussing  all  the  aspects  and  dimensions  of  the  topic  in  hand.  Discussing  the 
 effects  and  impacts  of  the  topic.  Critical  discussion  not  only  considers  the 
 evidence  above  but  also  the  strength  of  the  evidence  based  on  the  validity  of  the 
 method  of  evidence  compilation 
 Critically 
 Evaluate  Consider  the  strengths  and  weaknesses,  arguments  for  and  against  and/or 
 similarities  and  differences.  The  writer  should  then  judge  the  evidence  from  the 
 different  perspectives  and  make  a  valid  conclusion  or  reasoned  judgement.  Apply 
 current  research  or  theories  to  support  the  evaluation  when  applicable. 
 Critical  evaluation  not  only  considers  the  evidence  above  but  also  the  strength  of 
 the  evidence  based  on  the  validity  of  the  method  of  evidence  compilation. 
 Critically 
 Reflect  As  with  reflect,  but  identifying,  questioning,  and  assessing  deeply-held  beliefs  and 
 assumptions  about  a  topic,  the  way  in  which  we  perceive  events  and  issues, 
 beliefs,  feelings,  and  actions. 
 Critically  Typically  used  to  qualify  verbs  such  as  evaluate,  assess,  appraise,  analyse  and 
 reflect.  Give  in-depth  insight,  opinion,  debate,  verdict  based  on  a  wide  variety  of 
 sources,  theory,  research  which  may  agree  and  contradict  an  argument. 
 Critique  A  detailed  analysis  and  assessment  of  something,  especially  a  literary, 
 philosophical,  or  political  theory. 
 Define  Show  or  state  clearly  and  accurately. 
 Describe  Provide  an  extended  range  of  detailed  factual  information  about  the  topic  or  item 
 in  a  logical  way. 
 Deliver  Ensure  something  is  conveyed  or  done  with  stakeholders/clients. 
 Demonstrate  Complete  a  task  or  activity,  showing  an  understanding  of  facts,  procedures  and 
 ideas  of  a  topic  and  competence  through  action  or  activity. 
 Determine  Settle/conclude  an  argument/question  as  a  result  of  investigation  or  by  referring  to 
 an  authority. 
 Develop  Elaborate,  expand  or  progress  an  idea  from  a  starting  point  building  upon  given 
 information. 
 Differentiate  Recognise  or  ascertain  a  difference  to  identify  what  makes  something  different. 
 Discuss  Give  a  detailed  account  including  a  range  of  views  or  opinions,  which  include 
 contrasting  perspectives. 
 Distinguish  Draw  or  make  distinction  between. 
 Draw  Present  a  conclusion  or  decision  about  what  is  likely  to  happen  based  on  facts. 
 Establish  Discover,  prove  or  show  something  to  be  true  or  valid  by  determining  the  facts. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  38 
 Evaluate  Consider  the  strengths  and  weaknesses,  arguments  for  and  against  and/or 
 similarities  and  differences.  The  writer  should  then  judge  the  evidence  from  the 
 different  perspectives  and  make  a  valid  conclusion  or  reasoned  judgement.  Apply 
 current  research  or  theories  to  support  the  evaluation  when  applicable. 
 Examine  Inspect  (something)  thoroughly  in  order  to  determine  its  nature  or  condition. 
 Explain  Make  something  clear  to  someone  by  describing  or  revealing  relevant  information 
 in  more  detail. 
 Explore  Go  through  the  topic/issue  thoroughly  looking  at  all  areas  that  affect  the 
 topic/issue. 
 Formulate  To  devise  or  develop  an  idea  or  concept  in  a  concise  and  systematic  way. 
 Identify  Ascertain  the  origin,  nature  or  definitive  characteristics  of  something. 
 Interpet  To  clarify/explain  the  meaning  of  something. 
 Investigate  Carry  out  a  systematic  or  formal  inquiry  to  discover  and  examine  the  facts  of 
 (problem,  options,  incident,  allegation  etc)  so  as  to  establish  the  truth. 
 Justify  Provide  a  rationale  for  actions  and/or  decisions.  Your  rationale  should  be 
 underpinned  by  research,  academic  theory,  data  analysis  or  experience. 
 Outline  A  general  description/broad  account/summary  of  something  showing  essential 
 features/outline  the  case  briefly  but  not  the  detail. 
 Plan  Make  a  plan  for  example,  a  change  plan  or  a  project  plan,  before  starting  activities 
 to  achieve  an  aim. 
 Prepare  To  make  or  develop  something  ready  which  will  happen  in  the  future. 
 Present/ 
 Presentation  Learners  may  present  to  an  audience  of  stakeholders  the  outcomes  of  their 
 studies.  A  recording  of  the  presentation,  speaker  notes  and/or  slides  may  be  used 
 to  provide  evidence  that  a  Learner  has  the  requirements  of  the  unit  assessment 
 criteria. 
 Produce  To  make,  create  or  form  something.  Put  together,  assemble.  leads  to  an 
 outcome/result. 
 Profile  An  outline  giving  a  description  of  a  role  or  organisation 
 Propose  To  put  forward  a  plan  or  suggestion  for  consideration  by  others 
 Recommend  Put  forward  proposals,  an  alternative  or  suggestion(s)  supported  by  a  clear 
 rationale  appropriate  to  the  situation/context. 
 Reflect  Consciously  contemplate,  appraise  or  give  balanced  consideration  to  an  action  or 
 issue. 
 Report  A  structured  document  communicated  or  presented  in  an  oral  or  written  form  and 
 organised  in  a  narrative,  graphic  or  tabular  form  referring  to  a  specific  period, 
 event  or  topic  area. 
 Research  A  detailed  study  or  investigation  of  a  subject  in  order  to  establish  facts  and  reach 
 new  conclusions. 
 Review  To  examine,  survey,  reconsider  a  subject,  theory  or  item. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  39 
 Specify  Identify  or  state  a  fact  or  requirement  clearly  and  precisely  in  detail. 
 Summarise  Sum  up  or  give  a  brief  account  of  relevant  information  in  your  own  words. 
 Use  The  action  of  using  something  for  a  particular  purpose. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  40 
 ANNEX  2  -  ASSESSMENT  ACTIVITY  DEFINITIONS 
 Activity 
 Definition  Activity  Definition 
 Briefing  paper  A  summary  of  facts  pertaining  to  a  particular  issue  or  problem.  Often  includes  a 
 suggested  course  of  action. 
 Business  case  A  formal  document,  presented  in  an  oral  or  written  format,  which  provides 
 justification  for  an  idea  or  project  to  address  an  identified  business  need  or 
 challenge. 
 Case  Study  A  description  of  an  event,  activity  or  problem  outlining  a  real  or  hypothetical 
 situation. 
 Good  practice 
 guide  A  structured  document  produced  with  the  purpose  of  supporting  individuals  to 
 develop  their  practice  in  a  particular  area. 
 Plan  A  detailed  outline  providing  an  insight  into  a  range  of  activities  required  to 
 complete  a  task. 
 Profile  An  outline  giving  a  description  of  a  role  or  organisation 
 Proposal  A  formal  document,  presented  in  an  oral  or  written  format,  which  puts  forward 
 ideas  or  suggestions  for  consideration  by  others. 
 Reflective 
 Statement  Learners  describe  their  actions  in  particular  situations  and  reflect  on  the  reasons 
 for  practicing  in  that  way.  This  is  particularly  useful  to  provide  evidence  that  they 
 can  evaluate  their  knowledge  and  practice. 
 Report  A  structured  document  communicated  or  presented  in  an  oral  or  written  form  and 
 organised  in  a  narrative,  graphic  or  tabular  form  referring  to  a  specific  period, 
 event  or  topic  area. 
 Research 
 project  report  A  formal,  written  document,  organised  in  a  narrative,  graphic  or  tabular  form 
 presenting  findings  and  recommendations. 
 Scenario  A  written  outline  or  a  situation  or  setting,  providing  insight  into  a  sequence  of 
 events  or  actions. 
 Written  account  A  written  document  presenting  knowledge  of  facts  or  event 
 Work  Based 
 Evidence  An  activity  from  within  the  workplace  that  is  used  by  the  Learner  to  evidence 
 and/or  demonstrate  competence  and  understanding 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  41 
 ANNEX  3  -  ALIGNMENT  TO  OCCUPATIONAL  STANDARD 
 This  qualification  is  aligned  to  the  occupational  standard  for  Operational  or  Departmental  Manager  (ST0385).  The  below  table  indicates  where 
 Knowledge,  Skills  and  Behaviours  are  aligned  within  units  in  this  qualification.  Please  see  the  unit  specifications  for  further  information. 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  42  KSB  KSB  Statement  549  550  551  552  553  554 
 Knowledge 
 K1  Understand  operational  management  approaches  and  models,  including  creating  plans  to 
 deliver  objectives  and  setting  KPIs.  ✓  ✓ 
 K2  Understand  business  development  tools  (eg  SWOT),  and  approaches  to  continuous 
 improvement.  ✓ 
 K3  Understand  operational  business  planning  techniques,  including  how  to  manage  resources, 
 development  of  sales  and  marketing  plans,  setting  targets  and  monitoring  performance. 
 Knowledge  of  management  systems,  processes  and  contingency  planning.  ✓ 
 K4  Understand  how  to  initiate  and  manage  change  by  identifying  barriers  and  know  how  to 
 overcome  them.  ✓ 
 K5  Understand  data  security  and  management,  and  the  effective  use  of  technology  in  an 
 organisation.  ✓ 
 K6  Know  how  to  set  up  and  manage  a  project  using  relevant  tools  and  techniques,  and 
 understand  process  management.  ✓ 
 K7  Understand  approaches  to  risk  management.  ✓ 
 K8  Understand  business  finance:  how  to  manage  budgets,  and  financial  forecasting.  ✓ 
 K9  Understand  different  leadership  styles,  how  to  lead  multiple  and  remote  teams  and  manage 
 team  leaders.  ✓ 
 K10  Know  how  to  motivate  and  improve  performance,  supporting  people  using  coaching  and 
 mentoring  approaches.  ✓ 
 K11  Understand  organisational  cultures  and  diversity  and  their  impact  on  leading  and  managing 
 change.  Know  how  to  delegate  effectively.  ✓ 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  43  K12  Know  how  to  manage  multiple  teams,  and  develop  high  performing  teams.  Understand 
 performance  management  techniques,  talent  management  models  and  how  to  recruit  and 
 develop  people.  ✓ 
 K13  Understand  approaches  to  partner,  stakeholder  and  supplier  relationship  management 
 including  negotiation,  influencing,  and  effective  networking.  ✓ 
 K14  Knowledge  of  collaborative  working  techniques  to  enable  delivery  through  others  and  how 
 to  share  best  practice.  ✓ 
 K15  Know  how  to  manage  conflict  at  all  levels.  ✓ 
 K16  Understand  interpersonal  skills  and  different  forms  of  communication  and  techniques 
 (verbal,  written,  non-verbal,  digital)  and  how  to  apply  them  appropriately.  ✓ 
 K17  Understand  your  own  impact  and  emotional  intelligence.  Understand  different  learning  and 
 behaviour  styles.  ✓ 
 K18  Understand  time  management  techniques  and  tools,  and  how  to  prioritise  activities  and  the 
 use  of  different  approaches  to  planning,  including  managing  multiple  tasks.  ✓ 
 K19  Understand  problem  solving  and  decision  making  techniques,  including  data  analysis.  ✓ 
 K20  Understand  organisational  values  and  ethics  and  their  impact  on  decision  making.  ✓  ✓ 
 Skills 
 S1  Able  to  input  into  strategic  planning  and  create  plans  in  line  with  organisational  objectives.  ✓ 
 S2  Support,  manage  and  communicate  change  by  identifying  barriers  and  overcoming  them.  ✓ 
 S3  Demonstrate  commercial  awareness,  and  be  able  to  identify  and  shape  new  opportunities.  ✓  ✓ 
 S4  Creation  and  delivery  of  operational  plans,  including  setting  KPIs,  monitoring  performance 
 against  plans.  ✓ 
 S5  Producing  reports,  providing  management  information  based  on  the  collation,  analysis  and 
 interpretation  of  data.  ✓  ✓ 
 S6  Plan,  organise  and  manage  resources  to  deliver  required  outcomes.  ✓  ✓ 
 S7  Monitor  progress,  and  identify  risk  and  their  mitigation.  Able  to  use  relevant  project 
 management  tools.  ✓ 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  44  S8  Able  to  monitor  budgets  and  provide  reports,  and  consider  financial  implications  of  decisions 
 and  adjust  approach  and  recommendations  accordingly.  ✓ 
 S9  Able  to  communicate  organisational  vision  and  goals  and  how  these  apply  to  teams.  ✓  ✓ 
 S10  Support  development  through  coaching  and  mentoring,  and  enable  and  support  high 
 performance  working.  ✓ 
 S11  Able  to  support  the  management  of  change  within  the  organisation.  ✓ 
 S12  Able  to  manage  talent  and  performance.  Develop,  build  and  motivate  teams  by  identifying 
 their  strengths  and  enabling  development  within  the  workplace.  Able  to  delegate  and  enable 
 delivery  though  others.  ✓ 
 S13  Able  to  build  trust,  and  use  effective  negotiation  and  influencing  skills  and  manage  conflict.  ✓ 
 S14  Able  to  identify  and  share  good  practice,  and  work  collaboratively  with  others  both  inside  and 
 outside  of  the  organisation.  ✓  ✓ 
 S15  Use  of  specialist  advice  and  support  to  deliver  against  plans.  ✓  ✓ 
 S16  Able  to  communicate  effectively  (verbal,  non-verbal,  written,  digital)  and  be  flexible  in 
 communication  style.  ✓  ✓ 
 S17/  Able  to  chair  meetings  and  present  using  a  range  of  media.  ✓  ✓ 
 S18/  Use  of  active  listening,  and  able  to  challenge  and  give  constructive  feedback.  ✓ 
 S19  Able  to  reflect  on  own  performance,  working  style  and  its  impact  on  others.  ✓ 
 S20  Able  to  create  a  personal  development  plan.  ✓ 
 S21  Use  of  time  management  and  prioritisation  techniques.  ✓  ✓ 
 S22  Able  to  undertake  critical  analysis  and  evaluation  to  support  decision  making.  Use  of  effective 
 problem  solving  techniques.  ✓ 
 Behaviours 
 B1  Drive  to  achieve  in  all  aspects  of  work.  Demonstrates  resilience  and  accountability.  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
 B2  Determination  when  managing  difficult  situations.  Seeks  new  opportunities.  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
 B3  Open,  approachable,  authentic,  and  able  to  build  trust  with  others.  Seeks  the  views  of  others  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  45  and  values  diversity. 
 B4  Flexible  to  the  needs  of  the  organisation.  Is  creative,  innovative  and  enterprising  when  seeking 
 solutions  to  business  needs.  Positive  and  adaptable,  responding  well  to  feedback  and  need  for 
 change.  Open  to  new  ways  of  working.  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
 B5  Sets  an  example,  and  is  fair,  consistent  and  impartial.  Open  and  honest.  Operates  within 
 organisational  values  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓  ✓ 
 ANNEX  4  -  REVISIONS  TO  DOCUMENT 
 The  below  table  summarises  any  revisions  made  to  this  document  since  publication. 
 Revisions  to 
 Document  Rational  for  Revision  Document 
 Version  Date 
 Revisions 
 Made 
 First  Publication  Version  1  Mar  2024 
 Assessment 
 section  updated  Final  assessments  signed  off,  information 
 added  to  syllabus  Version  2  Sept  2024 
 Level  5  Operational  Management  |  v02  46 
